# IDMaker

IDMaker is a Java library that provides a simple way to generate unique IDs for your entities. It is designed to be easy to use and flexible, allowing you to customize the generation of IDs to suit your needs.

## Why Use IDMaker?

For more information on why you should use this library, please refer to the following [link](https://devocean.sk.com/blog/techBoardDetail.do?ID=165948&boardType=techBlog#none).

## Features

- Generate unique IDs with a timestamp and a random part.
- Customize the length of the random part of the ID.
- Choose the type of characters to use for the random part of the ID (Korean, English, numbers, or a mix).
- Use DelegatingPasswordEncoder for various encryption algorithms for encryption / decryption **(planned)**.

## Getting Started

Before you start, make sure to check the [latest version](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/io.github.yonggoose/IDMaker) of IDMaker.

### Maven

If you are using Maven, you can add the following dependency to your `pom.xml`:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.github.yonggoose</groupId>
  <artifactId>IDMaker</artifactId>
  <version>0.3.0</version>
</dependency>
```

### Gradle

If you are using Gradle, you can add the following dependency to your `build.gradle`:

```groovy
dependencies {
    implementation 'io.github.yonggoose:IDMaker:0.3.0'
}
```

### Usage
<details>
<summary>IDMaker</summary>

### Step 1: Add the Dependency

First, you need to add the IDMaker library as a dependency to your project. If you're using Maven or Gradle, you can do this by adding the following lines to your `pom.xml` or `build.gradle` file respectively:

**Maven:**

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.github.yonggoose</groupId>
  <artifactId>IDMaker</artifactId>
  <version>0.3.0</version>
</dependency>
```

**Gradle:**

```groovy
dependencies {
    implementation 'io.github.yonggoose:IDMaker:0.3.0'
}
```

### Step 2: Annotate Your Entity's ID Field

Next, you need to annotate the field in your entity that you want to generate an ID for with the `@IDMaker` annotation. You can specify the length of the random part of the ID and the type of characters to use for the random part of the ID.

Here's an example:

```java
public class MyEntity {
    @IDMaker(length = 7, type = GenerationType.EN)
    private String id;
    // other fields...
}
```

In this example, an ID will be generated for the `id` field before the `MyEntity` object is persisted. The ID will consist of a timestamp and a random English string of length 7.

### Step 3: Add Entity Listeners

You need to add the `@EntityListeners` annotation to your entity class and specify `IDMakerEntityListener.class` as the listener. This will ensure that the `prePersist` method of `IDMakerEntityListener` is called before the entity is persisted, generating a unique ID for the annotated field.

Here's how you can do it:

```java
import IDMaker.project.IDMakerEntityListener;
import jakarta.persistence.Entity;
import jakarta.persistence.EntityListeners;
import jakarta.persistence.Id;

@Entity
@EntityListeners(IDMakerEntityListener.class)
public class MyEntity {
    @Id
    @IDMaker(length = 7, type = GenerationType.EN)
    private String id;
    // other fields...
}
```

### Step 4: Persist Your Entity

When you persist your entity (for example, by saving it to a database), the IDMaker library will automatically generate a unique ID for the annotated field if it is `null`.

Here's an example using Spring Data JPA:

```java
MyEntity entity = new MyEntity();
// set other fields...
myEntityRepository.save(entity);
```

In this example, when you call `myEntityRepository.save(entity)`, the IDMaker library will generate a unique ID for the `id` field of `entity` before it is saved to the database.

### Step 5: Retrieve the Generated ID

After your entity has been persisted, you can retrieve the generated ID by simply calling the getter method for the annotated field.

Here's an example:

```java
String id = entity.getId();
```

In this example, `id` will contain the unique ID that was generated by the IDMaker library.

That's it! You're now using the IDMaker library to generate unique IDs for your entities.

</details>

## License

IDMaker is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See the `LICENSE` file for more information.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a pull request.

## Contact

If you have any questions or issues, please open an issue on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/IDMaker-io/IDMaker).

## Acknowledgements

- Yongjun Hong, the author of IDMaker.
